So let's do the step that we
are missing here, that is the cart.
So the cart page right
now it's kind of empty,
it's just a text saying, Hello World.
So let's design that cart page.
That, again, it's just a design so
it's actually similar to what
we've been doing so far.
Before doing that,
my CartManager is empty.
So, what is the cart?
The cart it's actually an array
of products, okay, but
with one special addition,
we have quantity as well, okay?
So we have one cappuccino, two muffins.
So we can use a tuple for
that product quantity,
product integer, that makes sense?
So I can create a published property,
published variable,
because we are going to
actually see this in action.
It can be the cart that the type is
a tuple of products in the chart.
And we start with an empty array,
that's how you set
an empty array like in JavaScript,
like in JSON, okay?
By the way, it's an array of this,
sorry, my fault.
So it's an array of tuples.
That's the type, my bad,
so an array of tuple.
Okay, does it make sense?
>> Yeah, is there a way to set it for
example,
the second one to zero right away?
>> No, you're going to do that when
you add the value to the array,
not here, okay?
When you add the value to
the array you can do that.
Okay, so what about the cart page?
I'm going now to cart page that
is called OrdersPage actually.
So I'm going to OrdersPage,
I need to replace that text, Hello World,
with something more interesting.
So, if we go back to the course,
where is so,
I'm now in five, four, okay?
We need to update DetailsPage,
because now we have a product actually but
we can do that in a minute.
And here we have the OrderPage, okay?
So this is the final version of
the OrderPage, I will just paste The body.
Okay, and it's a long body and
I will show you how to refactor
this a little bit, okay?
When you have bodies like this that
are really long, maybe it's a good
idea to start refactoring and
creating the smaller views.
They don't need to be on a different file,
you're gonna have several
views in the same file, okay?
That's not actually a problem, but having
things like this is too large, okay?
So it's a good idea to work
with several sub-structures.
So, I know it sounds scary because
we have a lot of stuff here, but
actually we will see in
a minute that it's not so big.
First, before actually
trying to understand
what's inside,
we need the CartManager, right?
So we need the CartManager.
The CartManager is the file
that we have just created.
We injected that through the hierarchy,
but how can we receive that here?
So I need a CartManager, okay?
And we know it's of type, CartManager.
It's the one that contains the array,
okay, we have just created that,
it contains the array.
So how can we ask the injector,
or whoever is working
with injecting these
views that we want this?
We actually need to use another decorator,
okay?
So it's another decorator,
in fact, it was already here,
I didn't paste it on purpose,
it's called EnvironmentObject.
We don't need to create the object,
just with saying this,
this is going to bring
the singleton that was
injected in the App.
I don't need to do anything else,
I'll just say,
in this variable I will
capture one of these
observable objects that
we injected in the app.
Just as a reminder I'm talking about this,
when we were adding an EnvironmentObject.
So from the other side, we are actually
capturing this CartManager option.
We are injecting it in the whole app,
so any view in the hierarchy,
any view no matter how deep is set,
it can actually now receive it.
Okay, that's actually how you
receive these global objects.
Okay, does it make sense?
So now if we read the code,
it's on navigation view that's the one
that sets the title and let us navigate.
I'm asking if the count is 0, if it's
0 I'm rendering a text, can I use if?
Yes I can, I can use if,
I can use conditionals within views body.
So I'm just saying, your order is empty,
if not, I'm rendering a list.
The list can contain sections, okay?
What is a section?
Let me show you this directly
in iOS settings app.
This is a list, so,
here we can see different sections.
So this is a section, this is another
section, another section, just that.
And it's another view with a title and
its content.
Okay, so I have the items, the details,
I will see what is this in a minute.
I have another section with a total,
with an edge tag,
and a button, and some other things.
Let me remove this for a minute.
Or we can actually put it like so.
Expect the expression, yeah,
because this ends here.
Okay, let's see if we can preview this,
I have
A balance issue, and
why do I have a balance issue?
Because this code is too large.
Remember I mentioned typically
we wanna separate this.
Can we separate this easily?
Well actually when you come and
click here,
sometimes it depends on the case,
you can extract a view.
But if this view it's actually
needing more items, well,
it will not give you the option
you need to do it manually,
to integrate another structure for
a resection or something like that.
So this is complaining because
it's expecting an OrderItem,
what is an OrderItem?
In the cart, we have these UI,
this view, this is the OrderItem,
including the trash icon.
Okay, so it's asking, hey, you need that.
What is the OrderItem?
Something I need to create.
Another view, we have ProductItem,
we need OrderItem.
Does it make sense?
So in your file, OrderItem.
But it's not a view,
it's part of a view, yeah.
But, I mean, I didn't use the template
view so, can I use it anyway?
Yeah, but I will not have a preview
unless I create a preview manually,
that's the only problem.
Okay, so it's not a big deal,
but you can still work with this.
So, I can delete this and
create a new one.
So, new file, swiftUI view,
and now OrderItem, like so.
Let's keep it Hello World, that's okay.
So now we do have
an ordered item Like that,
so let's see what it's
complaining here about.
So we have here a name and a phone number.
So there is a form, because you're sending
a form, from there we have TextFields.
Remember with TextFields, we have to set
Some variables, remember how @State,
yeah, so @State, we have a name
And we have an email, okay, like so.
So remember we actually need that,
always we need that.
So we're removing some elements from here.
So we have another problem here, List.
When we are looping through elements for
each, so
far if you remember, we were doing for
each with something like this.
Remember, we were doing it forEach
with a fixed number, okay?
Does it make sense?
Instead of doing that,
we can do forEach with a collection.
Makes sense?
The only mandatory problem is
the collection needs a way to identify
each item individually So
we must identify each element somehow.
There are two ways to do that,
we can define here
where is the ID, and
for that we use a path.
You say .0, what's that .0?
Do you remember what's this?
>> Is it the tuple?
>> Sorry, what?
>> The tuple.
>> Yeah.
>> In the CartManager, we created a tuple.
So the tuple was .0, and
because it's a product it has its own ID.
Does it make sense?
I'm using that as an example, by the way,
I'm calling this cart not product.
>> But the cart manager
could have account itself-
>> [CROSSTALK]
>> It's not email form, sorry.
It's phone, not email, we can change
that for email, I'm sorry, yeah?
>> No, no, the CartManager,
you could have count within
CartManager too probably, right?
>> Yeah, it's just the same.
Well, look at that, it's asking
me if I wanna send a bug report.
>> [LAUGH]
>> So let's close the app and try again,
just to make this better,
okay, interesting.
I have this Bill fail,
let's see cartManager.total.
By the way, I can just comment
as in any other language,
this is just swift that we are writing,
so you can use Command forward slash,
to comment and uncomment and
that's perfectly fine.
I wanna see if I can get rid of that,
okay, we are kind of there.
So now it's complaining in the provider.
So it's missing argument, why?
Because it's saying that it
should have a name and a phone,
that's because I didn't set a default
value, and they're not optional.
So, if you wanna create an orders page,
you have to set
a value unless you have
a default value like this, okay?
And I think that finally we have
something to render, something to see.
So when that happens, you see,
okay, we have a big crash.
And it's important to understand what
this crash is actually telling us.
It says coffee masters quit unexpectedly.
It says, what's going on here?
There is some problem
somewhere in our code, and
remember that the preview is actually
executing the app in the simulator,
so it's executing the app
in the simulator.
So the simulator is not a real iPhone,
it's running on my Mac.
So the app actually crashed on my Mac.
To actually see what's going on, you need
to click on diagnostics in the preview.
That will give you the error message or
what's going on,
sometimes it's useful sometimes it's not.
Here it says, let's zoom in, and
it's a pretty easy to understand problem.
It says no ObservableObject
of type CartManager found.
So, it's saying that it didn't
find any environmentObject
in the preview,
this has to do with the preview,
look at this,
preview is missing environment object.
So what's going on?
We are injecting, we are bringing
an object from the hierarchy, but
what about the preview?
>> You're not injecting it there.
>> The preview is just the OrdersPage,
it doesn't contain the app,
does it make sense?
So it doesn't contain that object.
So we have a problem, the problem is that,
it cannot render the preview,
because it doesn't contain
the dependency in the hierarchy,
because we are just rendering
one small part of our app.
So to solve the problem, we need to
come to the PreviewProvider, and
also add, while it's complaining,
so ignore again, ignore again.
And we need to inject the environment
object in the preview,
so which one, a new CartManager,
so an empty one, problem solved.
Again, this is important,
every time you are previewing,
you have a preview on a view
that has a dependency and
that dependency is an environment object,
the preview needs that environment object.
So you need to inject one, because it's
not actually within the hierarchy.
Okay, now it's telling that
the order is empty, why?
Well, because that CartManager is empty,
is one that they have just created
without any elements inside.
Okay, does it makes sense?
So we have that situation that-
>> I think we should
put the environment object right away,
but maybe not in this page, right?
>> Add the product?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, well,
probably we will use it later,
yeah, somehow for the item.
But because the item says,
Hello World, right now,
that's why nothing happens, okay?
So any questions at this point?
>> So, I mean, if you were really
stubborn, if you don't want a preview,
you could ignore, I mean,
you will have to just compile it
each time which would be come out.
>> Yeah, I mean, you can remove
the preview and just run the app.
>> [CROSSTALK]
>> But you're losing the preview
>> I know you have to kind of you have it.
>> You're losing the preview ability,
that's the problem.
>> You wanted it.
>> Yeah, that's the problem.